MIE 286 Winter 2026: Term ProjectTopic: The Effect of Feedback Type on Task PerformanceKey Logistics Summary• Team Size: Groups of three (3) students.• Team Formation Due: February 4th, 11:59 PM.• Proposal Due: February 15th, 11:59 PM (20%).• Final Report Due: April 7th, 11:59 PM (80%).• Software: Analysis must be conducted using R/R Studio.PROJECT OVERVIEWThis project is designed to deepen your understanding of course material, experimental design,and research methods. You will pursue a research question of your choice, collect data, andanswer it using statistical evidence.1 PROJECT TEAMThe project is to be completed in groups of three (3).• Finding a Group: If you are having difficulty forming a group, use the course’s discussionboard on Piazza to find other students. If you are having difficulties, please talk to yourproject TAs.• Conflict Resolution: If you experience any team issues, contact the project TAs andinstructor as soon as possible. Do not wait until the report submission deadline to raisethese issues.2 EXPERIMENT DESIGN REFRESHERExperiments are a key part of scientific and engineering knowledge because they allow for hypothesistesting and the establishment of causal relationships. In planned experiments, we testthe relationships between variables by manipulating one or more factors (the IndependentVariables) while keeping all other factors constant (controlled variables). We then observechanges in one or more outcome variables (the Dependent Variables). If all other factors arewell-controlled, we can attribute changes in the dependent variable(s) directly to the manipulationof the independent variable(s).1Term Project Description MIE 286 Winter 20263 PROJECT DESCRIPTIONIn engineering systems and User Interface (UI) design, operators are often presented with realtimedata about their actions/performance. For example, a factory worker might see a live countof “parts produced per hour,” or a gamer might see a ticking countdown timer.While feedback is generally intended to motivate, inform, or guide the user, the specific typeor modality of feedback used can significantly alter performance. Different forms of feedbackplace different demands on the user. For instance, visual feedback might compete with visualtasks, while auditory feedback might be less intrusive but harder to process precisely. Thisphenomenon is related to Cognitive Load Theory—processing different feedback types requiresdifferent mental resources.Your Task: Design an experiment that investigates the effect of Feedback Type on thespeed and accuracy of a task of your choice. To accomplish this, you must make the followingdesign choices:3.1 ContextChoose an area you are interested in exploring. The context should be interesting, **not risky**for your participants, and address a research question without an obvious answer. You mustgenerate a specific hypothesis about the relationship between your independent and dependentvariables.• Example Research Question: Does auditory feedback (e.g., a beep) result in faster typingspeed than visual feedback (e.g., a visual counter)?Note: Try to identify a problem or question grounded in the real world.3.2 Dependent Variables (Outcome Variables)You must measure two dependent variables:1. Response Time (Speed): E.g., The time taken to complete a puzzle or type a paragraph.2. Accuracy (Quality): E.g., The number of errors made, or a score achieved.There should be enough granularity in your measures of speed and accuracy so that they canbe treated as continuous variables in your analysis.3.3 Independent Variable (The Factor)Your independent variable will be a single categorical factor called “Feedback Type” withtwo distinct levels. You must compare two active forms of feedback. Do not use a “No Feedback”condition. You will have to make decisions regarding the differing characteristics, suchas modality (Visual vs. Auditory), timing (Immediate vs. Delayed), or content (Detailed vs.Simple).• Level 1. Feedback Type A: The participant performs the task receiving feedback in aspecific form (e.g., Visual Feedback).2Term Project Description MIE 286 Winter 2026• Level 2. Feedback Type B: The participant performs the task receiving feedback in adifferent form (e.g., Auditory Feedback).3.4 Experimental MethodYou must design an experiment removing systematic biases from your design as much as possible.This includes:• How you manipulate the independent variable (how you present the different feedbacktypes).• How you assign conditions to participants (e.g., random assignment).• How you control for other factors (e.g., ensuring all participants receive identical instructions).3.5 ParticipantsYour participants should be representative of the study population you wish to examine.• Sample Size: You must collect data from at least 12 different participants for eachlevel of your independent variable (Total N ≥ 24).• Sampling Method: You may collect data from family and friends, but you must discussthe limitations associated with convenience sampling in your report.4 ANALYSIS METHODSDescribe your data using descriptive statistics and draw conclusions using appropriate inferentialstatistics (e.g., t-tests, correlation). Analyze the relation between speed and accuracy.The speed-accuracy trade-off describes the relationship between how fast someonemight respond and how accurate they might be.1Requirement: You must use R/R Studio (and no other software) to conduct youranalyses.5 DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONSDiscuss what your results mean in terms of your overall research context, and regarding thetrade-off between your two dependent variables (speed and accuracy).You should also describe any limitations to your study that arise because of the way yourexperiment was designed or how your data was collected (e.g., your results might have varieddue to having different experimenters operating the stopwatch). Also discuss lessons learnedand how you may have run the experiment differently if you were to do it again with the sameresources and if you had more resources.1See Heitz, R. P. (2014). The speed-accuracy tradeoff: history, physiology, methodology, and behavior.Frontiers in Neuroscience. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4052662/3Term Project Description MIE 286 Winter 20266 DELIVERABLESThere are two major deliverables. For each day a deliverable is late, the assessed mark is reducedby 20%.6.1 1. Project Proposal (4% of course grade)Due: February 15th at 11:59 PM (Submit via Quercus)Your proposal should describe what you plan to do, specifically:• The specific hypotheses you want to investigate.• Your experimental design and data collection methods.• A description of the variables to be measured and a brief analysis plan.Format: A two-page document, at least 1.5 line spacing, 1-inch margins, and 12-point font.All required elements should be included within the page limit.6.2 2. Final Report (15% of course grade)Due: April 7th at 11:59 PM (Submit via Quercus)Submit only one report per group. It must be written in the format of a formal research reportcontaining:1. Introduction: Goal of the study, research questions, and background information.2. Methods: Experimental procedure, description of participants/apparatus, and variabledefinitions. Discuss possible biases.3. Analyses: Description of the statistical tests performed.4. Results: Descriptive and inferential statistics, including assumption checks (e.g., normality).Use tables/figures effectively.5. Conclusion: Conclusions based on statistical analysis, recommendations for further study.6. References: Include any papers or works you need to cite here. As to the format of thecitations, any style is acceptable as long as it is used consistently.7. Appendices: Detailed R code and raw statistical outputs (e.g., normality checks).Format: Maximum 10 pages (excluding Appendix, References, and Title Page). At least 1.5line spacing, 12-point font. An attribution table form must be included.4