Marking Rubric –ProposalFull MarksIntroduction (5)•Interesting research question(s). Some background information that motivates the research question.Methods (30)•Clear description of proposed procedures (participants, apparatus, tasks and procedure, potential biases/limitations, experimental design/dependent and independent variables).•Description and justification for dependent variables and covariates chosen.Analysis plan (5)•A brief analysis plan (e.g., type of descriptive statistics, plots that may be used as well as the comparisons planned for inferential statistics).Writing Quality (5)•Correct grammar/spelling.•Concise, and well written.•Logical flow between sections.Formatting (5)•Follows formatting standards for references and citations.•Follows formatting standards for page limit, font size, etc.Marking Rubric –ProjectFull MarksIntroduction (5)•Interesting research question(s).Background (5)•Background information that clearly motivates the research question.Methods (25)•Clear description of procedures (participants, apparatus, tasks and procedure, biases/limitations, experimental design/dependent and independent variables).•Description and justification for dependent variables and covariates chosen.•Enough detail provided for a third party to reproduce the experiment.Analysis (20)•A clear description of the analysis.•Correct application of course material.•Correct usage of one or two-tailed tests.•Hypotheses for statistical tests stated.Results (25)•Descriptive statistics provided for both dependent variables (e.g., mean and variance), and covariates.•Inferential statistics correctly applied.•Concise representation of data through graphs and tables.Conclusion (5)•Implications of results discussed based on the research question, acknowledging study limitations and lessons learned.Appendices (5)•Assumption checks.•Relevant R code.•Any additional material that can help explain the experimental setup.Writing Quality (5)•Correct grammar/spelling.•Concise, and well written.•Logical flow between sections.Formatting (5)•Follows formatting standards for references and citations.•Follows best practices for number of significant figures.•Follows formatting standards for page limit, font size, etc.